# TaskMe: to-do react web application

## Created by Yuliyan Vladimirov (Q13597043)
### Link to hosted app: [TaskMe](contemp-web-app.firebaseapp.com)
### Link to Git Repository: [GitHub](https://github.com/yvladimirov98/wad/tree/master)

#### Introduction
This application was created to represent a solution to the problem defined in the report that was delivered in November 2020 on the subject of Contemporary Web Applications taught in Solent University under the course Computing Year 4. The problem I defined in the said report was that students often have a hard time managing their time wether because they are working full/part time or any other reason. My potential solution was a simple to-do task application that is easy enough to work with while not sacrificing any features and is considerably well themed with plans to be made so that the user can choose their own theme, pictures etc. so they could feel more invested in the app by adding their personal touch.

#### Methodology
The main methodology I used was The James Martin Rapid Application Development (RAD) method. I chose it because I did not have much time and the method is strongly focused on the coding process while simultaneously developing the visual aspect of the app. Although the method itself is not suitable for large projects, small ones such as mine that need to be developed in a short time frame, can benefit from it. It is divided in four phases:

1) Requirements and planning phase
2) User design phase
3) Construction phase
4) Cutover phase

The first two phases were reflected in my report where I defined the problem, gathered data from fellow students and used it to develop a design. The other two phases are the construction and cutover phase that I am going to go through now. 
The construction phase is focused on the programming and the development of the app itself. Usually the user/client is present and participates in the development process. As I was extremely time constrained I had to limit the user testing to an informal closed group of fellow students that were testing the views/screens as I developed them in order to give me either styling or layout feedback. The application layout consists of two `div`s in a row. The first one contains the side menu which itself consists of two `div`s - one at the top containing the avatar of the currently logged in user and the email displayed next to it and below it contains a list of the views - **Home** and **Add a Task**, each with an appropriate icon. The `div` next to the side menu is another wrapper that has two `div`s in it displayed in a row. The one on top is the header. The one below that contains all the views and is used to render them. The side menu and the header `div`s are displayed unconditionally and the only `div` that changes its appearance is the `div` with a class `mainView`. Since the app is locked and requires login in order to access it the login screen is a separate `div` is on a root level along with the side menu and the `mainBody`. When the user logins they are directed to the Home screen where they can see their active tasks.
In order for the user to add a task they need to click on **Add a Task** in the side menu and the app will render an input field along with a button and when the user clicks the button the task will be pushed to the **Home** screen and listed there. This works by adding the item in an array as a `props` and that same array is declared in the `App.js` from where it's passed on to the MainView screen where the layout and div for the list is set and it takes the item from the `props`. In order to delete the task the user simply has to click on the task itself and it will be deleted. 
The app uses styles mainly from `App.scss` where the global and majority of focused styles reside. However there are elements that have their styles in the respective `js` file. The app was specifically designed with the dark theme(as per design) in mind as to be considerate of the user and try and avoid headache, eye strain etc after a prolonged use. 
The final phase is Cutover. That is the implementation and testing phase. For this project this was the hosting and giving it to the aformentioned closed group to test it out. The link to the hosted app is given at the top of this document as well as in the `README.md` that can be found in the repository.

### Conclusion/Results
The application, given the limited time that it had for development, in its core functionality still represents a solution for the problem mentioned above, even though a primitive one. However, due to setbacks and limited time the testing phase and process was not up to standarts, but it was enough to keep the development process going. Some of the pages that were to be developed were cut out of the app in the middle of development as well as the logic behind them due to the time restrictions and problems and setbacks met along the development process. The categories were a major mechanic that had to be dropped in this initial version of the app. 
Ultimately the app would be given two more screens/views/pages - one for the completed tasks and one for the categories. The **Add a Task** screen would have featured a dropdown with categories which would be added to the `TodoItem` and shown in the final view on the home screen. The screen for the categories would show them in a styled list with the option to add or remove categories which will update the aformentioned categories dropdown. The completed tasks would be in a different screen and the logic would be the same as it is right now with the add a task mechanic - when a button or an icon is clicked the appropriate task will be transfered to the said screen where it will get a different styling in order to differentiate it from the unfinished tasks. With the addition of these pages the style of the whole app would be reviewed and improved as well by adding additional themes (mainly a white/bright one) and restyling current and newer components.
In conclusion, the application is fulfiling its purpose and is a working prototype of a solution to the set problem, even though it is a basic one. It has a simple structure and is easy to maintain and upgrade. The flaws and fallbacks and lack of more advanced features are all acknowledged and will be fixed, improved and implemented in future versions of the application.